---
title: "Named route conventions in Laravel"
path: /posts/named-route-conventions-in-laravel
author: Dwight Watson
date: 2014-09-02
tags: ["laravel", "php"]
---

Piggy-backing off my last post is the usage of named routes on Laracasts. I&#039;ve noticed the use of things like `users_path` and `user_path` as named routes in some of the applications being built on that site.

    Route::get(&#039;users&#039;, [
        &#039;as&#039; =&gt; &#039;users_path&#039;,
        &#039;uses&#039; =&gt; &#039;UsersController@index&#039;
    ]);

If you&#039;ve used Rails, these kind of helpers probably seem pretty familiar to you (and they&#039;re really helpful, I&#039;ve actually made a PR or two to try and bring similar functionality to Laravel). However I find this flies right in the face of the conventions already in Laravel. Take a look at this resource, for example.

    Route::resource(&#039;users&#039;, &#039;UsersController&#039;);

If you were to run `php artisan routes` now, you&#039;ll see the Laravel convention for named routes show. It&#039;s slightly more verbose, but it&#039;s very clear.

* users.index
* users.create
* users.store
* users.show
* users.edit
* users.update
* users.destroy

These seven named routes map to seven methods on a resource controller (which can be generated by Artisan, also) and also to the four HTTP methods to be RESTful. Because of this, when defining my routes I try to always stick to this convention also. I find that it keeps a project a lot more organised, and it takes less time to think about what `users.store` does, as opposed to `users_path`.

    Route::get(&#039;users&#039;, [
        &#039;as&#039; =&gt; &#039;users.index&#039;,
        &#039;uses&#039; =&gt; &#039;UsersController@index&#039;
    ]);

Again, this is just me showing how I do projects (and how our coding style guide demands it at work). Free to consider your options, but I like this.
