---
title: "Geolocate requests with Cloudflare workers"
path: /posts/geolocate-requests-with-cloudflare-workers
author: Dwight Watson
date: 2021-04-27
tags: ["cloudflare", "serverless"]
---

A number of apps I've worked on have used HTTP request geolocation to show content that's relevant to the user. Not in a creepy way (where it's used to track and record you), but to easily show search results that are immediately helpful. A simple example is [High School Tutors](https://highschooltutors.com.au) - it's homepage will show the available tutors near your closest city. It's a great way of showing relevant content right out of the box.

Previously I've done this using [MaxMind's GeoLite2](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2) database - you can plug in an IP address and it will give you a rough approximation of location with city/suburb names and latitude/longitude. These aren't exact by any means - they don't point to your house - but as long as you've got a point in rough proximity it's good enough. With Laravel [GeoIP](https://github.com/Torann/laravel-geoip) is an easy plug-and-play package that can download this database on deploy and handle the lookup for you/

However, I wanted to explore another option using [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/). This would alleviate my need to download this database and maintain that setup in my app, and instead offload that functionality. Luckily Cloudflare Workers can easily expose a ton of relevant information as well. With 100k free requests per day and plans starting from $5/month after that it's a really nice option to get going.

```js
addEventListener("fetch", (event) => {
  event.respondWith(addHeaders(event.request))
})

async function addHeaders(request) {
  request = new Request(request)

  if ((cf = request.cf)) {
    request.headers.set("X-Worker-Latitude", cf.latitude)
    request.headers.set("X-Worker-Longitude", cf.longitude)
  }

  let response = await fetch(request)

  return response
}
```

This worker will simply add two headers to the incoming request - `X-Worker-Latitude` and `X-Worker-Longitude`. Add the worker and then apply it to your site in Cloudflare (you can apply it to every request, or only those matching certain requests, if that helps). I find that this generally runs with an overhead of 0.9ms perforamnce negligible.

It's worth noting however that this geolocation it isn't quite as accurate as using a proper geolocation database. The location given is more general, so if more accuracy is important to you this may not be a good trade-off. Otherwise this is a really easy solution to get up and running.
